
25-07-07 
Monday - Sanctuary

LinkedIn: Post von Prof. Dr. Dr. Oliver Hoffmann
Hook: Das Gedächtnis-Paradox: Warum "Look it up" unser Gehirn ruiniert
https://www.linkedin.com/posts/prof-dr-dr-oliver-hoffmann_%F0%9D%90%83%F0%9D%90%9A%F0%9D%90%AC-%F0%9D%90%86%F0%9D%90%9E%F0%9D%90%9D%C3%A4%F0%9D%90%9C%F0%9D%90%A1%F0%9D%90%AD%F0%9D%90%A7%F0%9D%90%A2%F0%9D%90%AC-%F0%9D%90%8F%F0%9D%90%9A%F0%9D%90%AB%F0%9D%90%9A%F0%9D%90%9D%F0%9D%90%A8%F0%9D%90%B1-activity-7347855656705478657-i9D4?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop&rcm=ACoAABb6QvwBngxxr5hGKaxBkK8lLxaXkx3JXtc

Grundlage des Posts:
Artikel: Oakley, Barbara and Johnston, Michael and Chen, Kenzen and Jung, Eulho and Sejnowski, Terrence, The Memory Paradox: Why Our Brains Need Knowledge in an Age of AI (May 11, 2025).
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5250447

Upload the Paper to NotebookLM

create "Audio Overview" (Length Default)
Customization Prompt: "focus on relatable and practical aspects to answer the question how humans and ai can collaborate effectively and with a positive effect on the human brain"
(creation takes some time.. go on with next task)

Print out Paper introduction (p. 2 - 6) 
Read introduction
write Notes on the printed introduction.

new obsidian note for this Paper
[[Q1 - S1 - The Memory Paradox (Article)]]
wrote bullet points from intro notes and marks

listening to NotebookLM audio overview

generated Mind Map with Notebook LM

Question pops up in my head: "What do I really want to be an expert in?". I have to be very smart and intentional about that, then systematically direct my efforts to build and train this expertise. Maybe also check my existing expertise, and think about potential blind spots or gaps. Also, be very honest and intentional about how to improve here.
Remember: Knowledge can be acquired, even deep understanding, but it requires serious effort, so think about it.

-

I decide to start off with a GitHub repository and a GitHub Pages site, that can be used as a container of research results, experiments and tests to be shared with the public.

I learn the basics about GitHub pages.

I decide to also host my own company site (tricksal.com - tricksal GmbH) using GitHub Pages

checking if DSVGO might be conflicting with GitHub Pages' IP automatic collection (ChatGPT o3 + Online Search)
Result:
https://chatgpt.com/share/686bd1f8-f24c-800c-8737-92c560e0a056


-

Idea: work on two parallel tracks:

Left Track | Right Track
(raw notes) | (excerpt of what is relevant to the quest)

-






